1. Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg. 

select title from movie where director = 'Steven Spielberg';

2. Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.

select distinct M.year from movie M, rating R on M.mID = R.MID
where R.stars = 4 or R.stars = 5 order by M.year;

3. Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings. 

select M.title from movie M where M.mID not in
(select R.mID from rating R);

4. Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings
with a NULL value for the date. 

select R.name from reviewer R, rating S 
on R.rID = s.rID where s.ratingDate is NULL;

5. Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. 
Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars. 

select R.name, M.title, S.stars, S.ratingDate from movie M, rating S, reviewer R 
on R.rID = s.rID and S.mID = M.mID
order by R.name, M.title, S.stars;

6. For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return 
the reviewer's name and the title of the movie. 

select A.name, M.title from reviewer A, movie M on 
A.rID = (select r.rID from rating r, rating s 
on r.rID = s.rID and r.mID = s.mID
where r.stars > s.stars and r.ratingDate > s.ratingDate) and
M.mID = (select r.mID from rating r, rating s 
on r.rID = s.rID and r.mID = s.mID
where r.stars > s.stars and r.ratingDate > s.ratingDate);

7. For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title 
and number of stars. Sort by movie title.

select distinct t.title, m.stars from rating m, movie t on m.mID = t.mID where
m.stars >= (select max(stars) from rating where mID = m.mID) order by t.title;

8. For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given 
to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 

select m.title, max(r.stars)-min(r.stars) as spread from movie m, rating r 
where m.mID = r.mID group by title order by spread desc;

9. Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released 
after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for 
movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.) 

select stars1 - stars2 from 
(select avg(starss) as stars1 from (select avg(m.stars) as starss, m.mID from rating m where
m.mID in (select a.mID from rating a, movie b where a.mID = b.mID and b.year < 1980 ) group by
m.mID)), (select avg(starss) as stars2 from (select avg(m.stars) as starss, m.mID from rating
m where m.mID in (select a.mID from rating a, movie b where a.mID = b.mID and b.year > 1980 )
group by m.mID));
